all right so in my recent video about
google's pixel 5 announcement a lot of
you guys in the comments section
were saying that this was the better
phone a lot of you guys have a
preference for
the samsung galaxy s20 fe over the
equivalently priced google pixel 5 and
if you look on paper
there's a lot of stuff to like about the
s20 fe it's got
a faster processor faster screen faster
storage
expandable storage it also has a third
camera lens you can zoom in
optically instead of digitally there's a
lot of stuff to like about the s20 fe
that the pixel 5 does not have now the
conversation
could end there if all you cared about
was hardware specs but
i think that the decision between the
two between pixel 5 or
an s20 fe lies
deeper all this stuff is about
aesthetics and design and stuff that not
everyone cares about
i do right that's if you follow my
channel i care about this stuff a lot
but i think that's one of the things you
have to consider if you're interested in
these phones like they're both the same
price
but one is meant to delight and the
other is not
to understand just kind of like the
groundwork of what i'm going for
we got to talk about positioning and
marketing if you look at what
this phone the s20 fe what it represents
for samsung
it's a very different type of phone than
what the pixel 5
represents for google so this is
samsung's like
it's not a budget phone because 700 is
still very expensive but it's more
budget
friendly option in their premium lineup
it's like yeah we got 13 1400
phones but we also have this 700 phone
but this phone
can't be too good or too cheap right if
they make this thing
too good then no one else is buying the
other phones right it has to sit
alongside
the rest of its brothers so this is a
value oriented option amongst a sea of
premium phones for pixels the google
pixel 5
represents their best it's their poster
boy it's their
premium flagship most expensive phone
this year
but these differences in positioning for
these phones manifest itself into
hardware decisions like if you look at
the front-facing camera on the s20 fv
do you see how prominent that is that
hole punch camera
it has a silver ring around the element
and it's weird when you first see it
it's very obvious it
stands out even with the thing off right
it made me think
did they do this on purpose like did
they intentionally make this ring silver
and make this
front facing camera more visibly obvious
so that it looks not as clean compared
to its
brothers and this goes to other features
as well if you look at the plastic back
like i have nothing against
plastic-backed phones
but this particular back is a very plain
like if you compare the two so this is
the note 20 like the
plastic backed kind of basic note 20.
this is not a cheap phone by any means
but
you can tell the very obvious difference
in aesthetic focus between these two
phones despite them both having
plastic backs and there's again nothing
wrong with it right it's
meant to be that way the s20 fe has to
look
a certain step down from its brothers it
has to not look too good
with a pixel 5 however it's meant to
look the best it's meant to
delight now when it comes to cameras
it's gotten to the point
where basically every flagship phone has
gotten
much closer to pixel's quality
than a year ago even the pixel 5 uses
the same
main camera sensor as the previous
generations
it's a really good sensor but it's their
software that's doing most of the work
and the pictures that come off pixel
phones
are excellent right particularly the
difficult shots
low light stuff high dynamic range stuff
it just looks so good on pixel phones
the s20 fe is really close there is one
advantage that i think the pixel 5 will
have though
it's with ultra wide photography so when
it comes to ultra wide shots
the processing with samsung's phones and
basically
every phone out there isn't as good
particularly with low light photography
on the ultra wide lens pixels but this
is the first time we're going to see
an ultra wide lens on a pixel phone i
think they're going to do it better than
everyone else
with the low light shots or like the
tough shots and on this phone the s20 fe
the ultra wide with low light
is okay it's not great now i want to
touch on a few other things before i
wrap this up
the fingerprint sensor on the fe it's an
optical sensor it's in display
and i was concerned because i've had
poor experiences with
optical sensors but this one seems quite
good it's fast it's reliable and even a
week later i've had no
drift with accuracy on this particular
sensor at least with
my finger or fingerprint another thing
battery life so this
has a great battery life i'm hitting
like eight and a half almost nine hours
of screen on time consistently
the pixel 5 it's a smaller battery but
it's a smaller phone so i imagine
battery life would be quite similar
between the two
in terms of software i think that
samsung's one ui
will never be as clean or as simple as
google's version of android right it
can't be samsung has some more features
in their phones
but not everyone appreciates that stuff
not everyone wants that stuff so
if you want just the cleanest and
leanest software possible
i'd probably push you more towards
pixels but the point i'm trying to make
is that
this phone or just any phone it's not
just about
specs right if it was we'd all just be
using 300 phones from china with
snapdragon ten thousands on them but
clearly it's not there's the decision
for this kind of
purchase decision is it's more nuanced
there's
things like how it feels in your hand
how it looks how it appeals to different
people so
to the people that were in the comments
that this is the better phone for sure
it could be for certain people but it's
not for everyone right
but personally i think the s20 fe is an
amazing phone it
exceeded my expectations because of its
price point
but it's got to sit along the shelf with
the rest of the
galaxy lineup right so it can't look too
good especially in the aesthetics
department okay
hope you guys enjoyed this video thumbs
if you liked it subs if you loved it see
you guys next time